# 5th Workshop on Heterogeneous Memory Systems (HMEM 2024)

### In conjunction with [IEEE CLUSTER 2024](https://clustercomp.org/2024/), Kobe, Japan, 24 September 2024


## Overview and scope

The 5th HMEM workshop serves as a forum to present and discuss ongoing research around heterogeneous memory systems. The scope of the workshop encompasses all the layers of system and software stack, from computer architectures, operating system, middleware, programming models, runtime systems, tools, to applications.

Heterogeneous memory infrastructure design is becoming an emerging trend in today's HPC scene.
Different memory technologies are maturing, such as HBM, NVM/persistent memories, and also
emerging, such as those based on CXL. These aim at helping mitigate the memory bottleneck by offering
opportunities for benefiting applications that process large amounts of data, e.g., offering small but fast
memory subsystems to place frequently accessed data structures. Such opportunities may be realized
across all the layers of system and software stack: from computer architectures, operating system,
middleware, programming models, runtime systems, tools, up to applications. 

As in previous years, the
Workshop on Heterogeneous Memory Systems (HMEM) will bring together different research efforts and
expertise to the end of integrating different approaches and democratizing the use of heterogeneous
memory systems to benefit applications not only in terms of performance, but also energy efficiency and
cost tradeoffs. The main goal of the workshop is to push the research frontiers forward by exchanging
knowledge and debating ideas through featured talks, technical paper presentations, and interactive
discussions. Overall, topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

- Data allocation and placement techniques in heterogeneous memory systems
- Caching for heterogeneous memory systems
- Programming models and tools for complex/heterogeneous memory hierarchies
- Software-defined far memories
- Disaggregated memory and in-memory computing
- Data movement in heterogeneous memory systems
- Memory consistency and persistency models
- Data structures for heterogeneous memory infrastructures
- Abstractions and support for failure-atomicity in persistent memory
- Emerging memory architectures and system configurations
- Use cases, early experiences and performance evaluations




## Program

September 24th, 2024

15:00 Welcome 

15:00-15:30 **Understanding Aurora's Heterogeneous Memory Architecture**, Brice Videau, Argonne National Laboratory, USA

15:30-16:00 **Understanding the Composability of Heterogeneous Memory for Workload-Optimized System Design**, Sudharshan Vazhkudai, Micron, USA

16:00-16:30 **Embracing Heterogeneous Memory Systems in HPC and Cloud: from Unified to Disaggregated**, Ivy Peng,  KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden

16:30-16:45 Coffee break

16:45-17:15 **Enabling cooperation between object and page management for improved tiering on heterogeneous memory systems**, Maciej Maciejewski, Huawei, Poland

17:15-17:45 **A couple use cases for heterogeneous memory systems from the Barcelona Supercomputing Center**, Antonio Peña, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain

17:45-18:15 **H2M: Heuristics for Heterogeneous Memory**, Clément Foyer, Université de Reims Champagne-Ardenne, France



## Submissions

The authors of accepted submissions will give a talk at the workshop and participate in the closing discussion panel. 

The accepted submissions will be included in the IEEE Cluster 2024 proceedings.
The authors of accepted submissions can also opt out of publication, and only give a talk.

Submissions must use the template for the [IEEE Cluster 2024 proceedings](https://clustercomp.org/2024/papers/).
Three kinds of submissions are possible:

- Full papers: 8 pages + 2 additional pages (including references), must not include author names (double-blind review).

- Short papers: 4 pages + 2 additional pages (including references), must not include author names (double-blind review).

- Abstracts of previous publications: 2 pages, which summarize recently accepted/published at top-tier conferences/journals. In this case, the author names and references to the published works should be included in the abstract. This kind of submission will not be published in the proceedings.

Submit your paper here: [submission link](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hmem2024)

### Guidelines for Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Generated Text

The use of content generated by artificial intelligence (AI) in a
paper (including but not limited to text, figures, images, and code)
shall be disclosed in the acknowledgments section of any paper
submitted to an IEEE publication. The AI system used shall be
identified, and specific sections of the paper that use AI-generated
content shall be identified and accompanied by a brief explanation
regarding the level at which the AI system was used to generate the
content.
The use of AI systems for editing and grammar enhancement is common
practice and, as such, is generally outside the intent of the above
policy. In this case, disclosure as noted above is recommended. 

## Important dates 

- **Submission deadline: July 10, 2024 (extended)**
- Notification of acceptance: July 24, 2024
- Camera-ready deadline: August 9, 2024
- Workshop: September 24, 2024

Time Zone: AOE (Anywhere One Earth)


## Organization committee
- [Antonio J. Peña](https://www.bsc.es/pena-antonio), Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC)
- [Harald Servat](http://www.linkedin.com/in/harald-servat-7b543395), Intel
- [João Barreto](https://www.dpss.inesc-id.pt/~jpbarreto/), INESC-ID, Universidade de Lisboa

## Program committee

- Adrian Jackson, EPCC, UK
- Alexandro Baldassin, Universidade Estadual Paulista, Brasil
- Gulay Yalcin, Abduallah Gul University, Turkey
- Ivy Peng, LLNL, USA
- Maciej Maciejewski, Huawei, Poland
- Marc Jordá, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain
- Petar Radojkovic, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain
- Thaleia Doudali, IMDEA, Spain
- Tim Dykes, HPE, UK
- Ying Huang, Intel, China

[to be completed]

## Previous editions

- [HMEM 2023](https://hmem-workshop.github.io/hmem2023/), colocated with SC'23

- [HMEM 2022](https://www.bsc.es/news/events/3rd-workshop-heterogeneous-memory-systems-hmem-2022), colocated with ICS'22

- [HMEM 2021](https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/events/upcoming-events/2nd-workshop-heterogeneous-memory-systems-hmem-2021-2021-06-18-0_en), colocated with ICS'21

- [HMEM 2020](https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/events/upcoming-events/1st-workshop-heterogeneous-memory-systems-hmem-2020-06-29_en/), colocated with ICS'20

